ENGLISH Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
ENGLISH The Minutes of yesterday 's sitting have been distributed .
ENGLISH Are there any comments ?
ENGLISH Mr President , on Monday I made a point of order about President Nicole Fontaine 's reported comments in the British press regarding her recent visit with Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II .
ENGLISH A British Labour Member of this House , Mr Miller , repeated what were purported to be the Queen 's remarks , not once but three times , on Monday , on Tuesday and on Wednesday .
ENGLISH He sought to drag the Queen into a political controversy and to use her name to score cheap political points .
ENGLISH He knows perfectly well that ours is a non - political Head of State .
ENGLISH He knows perfectly well that for nearly fifty years she has scrupulously avoided engaging in controversial political issues .
ENGLISH He knows perfectly well that she cannot come to this House to set the record straight .
ENGLISH His behaviour is a disgrace and a scandal .
ENGLISH Mr President , I am proud to be British but today I am ashamed to share my nationality with that man .
ENGLISH Has he no shame ?
ENGLISH Has he no respect ?
ENGLISH Has he no decency or honour at all ?
ENGLISH Mr President , I wish to use this point of order to speak in my capacity as chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico .
ENGLISH As you will be aware , elections were held in Mexico last Sunday .
ENGLISH Yesterday the delegation which I chair met and discussed a report drawn up by our fellow Members who had been to Mexico to act as observers at these elections on behalf of this Parliament .
ENGLISH Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I want to draw your attention to something really annoying in connection with the Minutes .
ENGLISH The - & # x2018 ; Texts Adopted & # x2019 ; - also form part of the Minutes .
ENGLISH I pointed out yesterday during the vote on the directive to combat money laundering the English translation of Article 6 ( 3 ) needs to be corrected to bring it in line with Amendment No 26, because the English translation is wrong .
ENGLISH In the middle of the second paragraph of the English version there is only a reference to representation in legal proceedings , but no reference to legal consultants , as there is in the German text .
ENGLISH That is a key point in this directive and since the Council working group is working on the basis of the English text it is quite crucial to correct this text .
ENGLISH I had already complained about this in committee vis à vis the language services .
ENGLISH At the time the committee decided not to table an amendment because the German text is the original version , as drafted by the rapporteur .
ENGLISH I complained about this yesterday -- the situation was not remedied -- and today is the third time I am complaining about it !
ENGLISH I do think the services of this House should work more carefully on such key questions and it really is intolerable that despite my criticism yesterday the Minutes have got the text wrong again !
ENGLISH I would ask you get to the bottom of this matter , to sort out this most important aspect of the directive and to please correct this in the English translation !
ENGLISH Mr President , yesterday we received a communication on yellow paper from the vice - president , with some nuts attached to it .
ENGLISH I think that is a very good idea and quite right .
ENGLISH And I am quite happy to support it .
ENGLISH But what rather puzzles me is that in it the vice - president quite explicitly stated that it is illegal to import these nuts into the European Union .
ENGLISH So I must ask this vice - president to explain how these nuts came to be illegally imported , since it was he who delivered them to us !
ENGLISH That in itself is a contradiction so would he please clarify the matter .
ENGLISH ( The Minutes were approved )
ENGLISH Welcome
ENGLISH Committee on Petitions -- European Ombudsman
ENGLISH The next item is the joint debate on the following reports , tabled on behalf of the Committee on Petitions :
ENGLISH ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) by Mrs Lambert , on the deliberations of the Committee on Petitions during the parliamentary year 1999 - 2000 ;
ENGLISH ( A5 - 0181 / 2000 ) by Mrs Thors , on the annual report on the activities of the European Ombudsman in 1999 .
ENGLISH Mr President , I am glad to have the opportunity to address the European Parliament concerning the results of my work as European Ombudsman in the year 1999 .
ENGLISH The Annual Report for 1999 covers the last year of the first mandate of the European Ombudsman .
ENGLISH Last year the Ombudsman 's office received 1,577 new complaints compared to 1,372 in 1998, an increase of nearly 15 % .
ENGLISH As well as becoming better known , the European Ombudsman is also attracting a higher proportion of serious complaints which require full investigation .
ENGLISH You may be interested to know that the same trend has continued to the present year .
ENGLISH During the first six months of this year , the number of new inquiries rose by 32 % over the same period in 1999 .
ENGLISH Inquiries are the most resource - intensive aspect of the Ombudsman 's work .
ENGLISH I do hope that the European Parliament will support the Ombudsman in seeking the resources needed to carry out the work effectively .
ENGLISH During 1999, we continued to receive a quite high proportion of complaints , over 70 % , which lay outside the mandate of the European Ombudsman .
ENGLISH We gladly accept complaints by e - mail and many of them contain well -- presented allegations of maladministration .
ENGLISH During the campaign for the election of a European Ombudsman last year , some critical voices suggested that the Ombudsman 's mandate should be broadened to include complaints against Member States in cases where a question of European Union law is involved .
FRENCH Approbation du procès - verbal de la séance précédente
FRENCH Le procès - verbal de la séance d ' hier a été distribué .
FRENCH Y a - t - il des observations - ?
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , lundi , j ' ai soulevé une motion de procédure sur les commentaires de la Présidente Nicole Fontaine que la presse britannique aurait rapportés et qui concernaient sa récente rencontre avec Sa Majesté la Reine Elizabeth II .
FRENCH Un député travailliste de cette Assemblée , M. - Miller , a répété , non pas une fois , mais trois fois , le lundi , le mardi et le mercredi , les remarques que la Reine aurait faites .
FRENCH Il a tenté d ' attirer la Reine dans une controverse politique et d ' utiliser son nom à des fins politiciennes .
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Mme Fontaine n ' avait peut - être pas connaissance des règles régissant le protocole britannique qui sont en vigueur en la matière , mais M. - Miller n ' a aucune excuse .
FRENCH Il sait pertinemment que depuis cinquante ans , elle a scrupuleusement évité de s ' engager dans des controverses politiques .
FRENCH Il sait pertinemment qu ' elle ne peut intervenir devant cette Assemblée pour dissiper tout malentendu .
FRENCH Son attitude est honteuse et scandaleuse
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je suis fier d ' être britannique mais aujourd ' hui , j ' ai honte de partager ma nationalité avec cet homme .
FRENCH Ne ressent - il aucune honte - ?
FRENCH Ne fait - il preuve d ' aucun respect - ?
FRENCH A - t - il une once de décence ou d ' honneur - ?
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je voudrais intervenir , grâce à cette motion de procédure , en ma qualité de président de la délégation pour l ' Amérique centrale et le Mexique .
FRENCH Ainsi que vous le savez , Monsieur le Président , des élections ont eu lieu dimanche dernier .
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , Mesdames et Messieurs , je voudrais signaler un problème important concernant le procès - verbal .
FRENCH Ce procès - verbal comprend également les textes approuvés .
FRENCH Le milieu du deuxième paragraphe de la version anglaise fait uniquement référence à la représentation devant les tribunaux , mais pas aux conseils juridiques , comme c ' est le cas dans le texte allemand .
FRENCH Il s ' agit d ' un point déterminant de cette directive . Étant donné que le groupe de travail du Conseil travaille sur la base du texte anglais , il est dès lors très important que ce texte soit corrigé .
FRENCH J ' ai déjà fait part de mon mécontentement à l ' égard des services linguistiques en commission .
FRENCH Auparavant , une proposition d ' amendement a été refusée , car le texte allemand était le texte original -- la langue du rapporteur .
FRENCH Je m ' en suis plaint hier -- ce n ' est par réglé - , je réitère mes critiques aujourd ' hui pour la troisième fois .
FRENCH Je pense que , pour des questions aussi importantes que celle - ci , les services de ce Parlement devraient travailler de manière plus sérieuse . Il n ' est en effet pas tolérable que , malgré les critiques que j ' ai formulées hier , le procès - verbal reste erroné sur ce point - !
FRENCH Je demande que ce problème soit traité à la racine , que cet aspect des plus importants pour la directive en question trouve une solution et que l ' on corrige , s ' il vous plaît , la traduction anglaise - !
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , nous avons reçu hier du vice - président vert un document jaune auquel étaient jointes des noix .
FRENCH Ce document demande que l ' exportation des produits de Vanuatu , un des pays en développement du Pacifique , soit soutenue .
FRENCH Une telle demande est à mon sens très bonne et tout à fait en règle .
FRENCH Je la soutiendrai volontiers .
FRENCH La seule chose qui m ' a surpris , c ' est que le Vice - président précise que l ' importation de ces noix au sein de l ' Union européenne est illégale .
FRENCH Puis - je dès lors demander au Vice - président de nous expliquer comment l ' importation illégale de ces noix s ' est déroulée , vu qu ' il nous en a livrées quelques - unes - ?
FRENCH C ' est en soi une contradiction et je l ' invite à l ' éclaircir .
FRENCH ( Rires et applaudissements )
FRENCH ( Le Parlement approuve le procès - verbal )
FRENCH Souhaits de bienvenue
FRENCH Commission des pétitions -- Médiateur européen
FRENCH L ' ordre du jour appelle , en discussion commune , les rapports suivants présentés par la commission des pétitions - :
FRENCH A5 - 0162 / 2000 de Mme - Lambert , sur les délibérations de la commission des pétitions au cours de l ' année parlementaire 1999 - 2000 - ;
FRENCH A5 - 0181 / 2000 de Mme - Thors , sur le rapport d ' activité annuel du Médiateur européen pour l ' année 1999 .
FRENCH Monsieur le Président , je suis heureux de pouvoir communiquer au Parlement européen les résultats des travaux que j ' ai menés en tant que médiateur européen pour l ' année 1999 .
FRENCH Le rapport annuel pour 1999 couvre la dernière année du premier mandat du médiateur européen .
FRENCH L ' année dernière , le bureau du médiateur a reçu 1577 nouvelles plaintes , comparées aux 1372 plaintes en 1998, c ' est - à - dire une augmentation de près de 15 - % .
FRENCH Le nombre d ' enquêtes ouvertes est passé de 171 en 1998 à 206 en 1999, ce qui représente une augmentation de plus de 20 - % .
FRENCH Outre le fait qu ' il gagne en notoriété , le médiateur européen attire une proportion plus importante de plaintes sérieuses nécessitant une enquête complète .
FRENCH Les enquêtes constituent l ' aspect le plus exigeant du travail du médiateur en terme de ressources .
FRENCH En 1999, une proportion assez élevée de plaintes , environ 70 - % , qui dépassaient le cadre du mandat du médiateur européen , nous sont encore parvenues .
FRENCH La proportion de plaintes dépassant le cadre du mandat a même légèrement augmenté , probablement en raison du fait que nous en avons reçu un nombre croissant par courrier électronique .
FRENCH Nous sommes heureux d ' accepter des plaintes par courrier électronique et beaucoup d ' entre elles contiennent des allégations bien présentées de mauvaise administration .
FRENCH Toutefois , la plus grande partie de ce type de plaintes est dirigée contre les autorités des États membres .
FRENCH L ' année dernière , lors de la campagne en vue de l ' élection du médiateur européen , certaines voix critiques ont suggéré que le mandat du médiateur devrait être élargi afin d ' y inclure des plaintes formulées à l ' encontre d ' États membres dans les cas où interviendrait la législation de l ' Union européenne .
FRENCH Je ne suis pas sûr qu ' elles aient compris que cela signifiait , pour le médiateur , effectuer des tâches relevant actuellement de la Commission européenne en tant que gardienne des Traités et du Parlement européen , en tant que forum démocratique auquel les citoyens peuvent adresser des pétitions .
ITALIAN Approvazione del processo verbale della seduta precedente
ITALIAN Il processo verbale della seduta di ieri è stato distribuito .
ITALIAN Vi sono osservazioni ?
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , lunedì ho fatto un richiamo al Regolamento in merito alle dichiarazioni che , secondo la stampa britannica , la Presidente Fontaine avrebbe rilasciato dopo essersi incontrata con Sua Maestà la regina Elisabetta II .
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Miller , un eurodeputato laburista britannico , ha ripetuto in questa sede le affermazioni attribuite alla regina e non una volta soltanto , ma in ben tre occasioni : lunedì , martedì e mercoledì .
ITALIAN Egli ha cercato di trascinare la regina in una controversia politica , servendosi del nome di Sua Maestà per ottenere un meschino successo politico .
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , forse la Presidente Fontaine non ha familiarità con le norme di protocollo che si applicano in queste circostanze in Gran Bretagna , ma l ' onorevole Miller non ha scusante alcuna .
ITALIAN Egli sa perfettamente che la regina è un Capo di stato senza poteri politici ; egli sa perfettamente che per quasi cinquant ' anni lei ha evitato di farsi coinvolgere in questioni politiche controverse ; egli sa perfettamente che la regina non può venire in questo Parlamento per rettificare le affermazioni che le sono state attribuite .
ITALIAN Il comportamento dell ' onorevole Miller costituisce è scandaloso .
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , sono orgoglioso della mia nazionalità britannica , ma oggi mi vergogno di condividerla con quest ' uomo , che sembra ignorare ogni sentimento di pudore e di rispetto .
ITALIAN L ' onorevole Miller è dunque totalmente privo di onore e dignità ?
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , come posso replicare a un attacco di tal fatta ?
ITALIAN Quando ho sollevato la questione lunedì , martedì e mercoledì ho chiesto all ' onorevole Helmer di esprimere un parere sull ' euro , ma finora egli si è ben guardato dal raccogliere il mio invito .
ITALIAN Vorrei inoltre rilevare che , nel colloquio con Sua Maestà la regina , la Presidente Fontaine ha posto alcune domande cui la regina ha risposto a nome del proprio governo , che è un governo laburista .
ITALIAN Questo forse non piacerà all ' onorevole Helmer , ma mi duole dovergli ricordare che le cose stanno proprio così .
ITALIAN Come tutti sanno , signor Presidente , la scorsa domenica si sono tenute le elezioni in Messico .
ITALIAN La delegazione da me presieduta , nell ' ambito della riunione tenuta oggi , ha avuto l ' opportunità di discutere la relazione dei nostri colleghi che hanno assistito a tali elezioni come osservatori in rappresentanza del Parlamento .
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , chiedo che la nostra risoluzione , di cui riceverà oggi il testo completo , sia inviata alle autorità messicane dalla Presidente del Parlamento .
ITALIAN Molto bene , onorevole Seguro .
ITALIAN Ne informerò senz ' altro la Presidente Fontaine .
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , onorevoli colleghi , intervengo per segnalare un errore nel processo verbale che è stato all ' origine di notevole malumore .
ITALIAN Del processo verbale fanno parte anche i testi approvati .
ITALIAN Ieri avevo fatto presente che la traduzione inglese dell ' articolo 6, paragrafo 3 della direttiva sulla lotta contro il riciclaggio di danaro , su cui abbiamo votato , doveva essere corretta in conformità dell ' emendamento n . 26, poiché la versione inglese è sbagliata .
ITALIAN Si tratta , peraltro , di un punto di importanza decisiva per la direttiva e , poiché il gruppo di lavoro del Consiglio utilizza come testo base la versione inglese , è assolutamente necessario apportarvi le dovute correzioni .
ITALIAN Avevo già segnalato il problema ai servizi linguistici durante la seduta della commissione , ma in quell ' occasione si è deciso di non presentare un emendamento in sede di commissione perché il testo originale è quello tedesco , essendo il tedesco la lingua del relatore .
ITALIAN Ieri ho nuovamente segnalato il problema , dato che non era stato ancora risolto , e ora lo risegnalo per la terza volta !
ITALIAN Ritengo che i servizi del Parlamento dovrebbero prestare maggiore attenzione e cura a simili aspetti , che rivestono importanza fondamentale . E ' inaccettabile che , nonostante le mie rimostranze di ieri , il processo verbale contenga tuttora l ' errore da me evidenziato !
ITALIAN La invito ad andare a fondo della questione e a far correggere la versione inglese in questo punto decisivo , di grande rilevanza per la direttiva !
ITALIAN Certamente , onorevole Lehne .
ITALIAN Lei lo ha già chiarito molto bene ieri ; provvederemo senz ' altro a far apportare la necessaria correzione .
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , ieri abbiamo ricevuto da parte del Vicepresidente aderente al gruppo Verts / ALE una lettera di colore giallo alla quale erano attaccate delle noci .
ITALIAN Nella missiva si afferma che occorre sostenere l ' esportazione dei prodotti di Vanuatu , un paese del Pacifico in via di sviluppo .
ITALIAN Trovo che tale richiesta sia senz ' altro valida e seria e penso che la potrò sostenere con piacere .
ITALIAN Mi permetto d ' invitare il Vicepresidente in questione a chiarire come sia avvenuta l ' importazione illegale delle noci da Vanuatu , visto che ce le ha date !
ITALIAN Mi pare di vedere una contraddizione in questa vicenda e vorrei che egli ce la spiegasse .
ITALIAN ( Ilarità e applausi )
ITALIAN ( Il Parlamento approva il processo verbale )
ITALIAN Benvenuto
ITALIAN Onorevoli colleghi , ho il grande piacere di porgere oggi il benvenuto alla delegazione dell ' Assemblea federale svizzera , guidata dal suo presidente , l ' onorevole Marcel Sandoz , presente in tribuna d ' onore .
ITALIAN Gli incontri sono iniziati ieri e proseguiranno nella giornata di oggi .
ITALIAN Fra i temi all ' ordine del giorno vi sono gli accordi bilaterali Unione europea - Svizzera , gli sviluppi futuri della politica d ' integrazione svizzera , le prospettive della Conferenza intergovernativa dell ' Unione europea e il processo di ampliamento dell ' Unione europea stessa .
ITALIAN A nome di tutta la nostra Assemblea , auguro alla delegazione una proficua partecipazione alle riunioni e un piacevole soggiorno in questa stupenda città di Strasburgo .
ITALIAN Commissione per le petizioni -- Mediatore europeo
ITALIAN L ' ordine del giorno reca , in discussione congiunta , presentate a nome della commissione per le petizioni , le seguenti relazioni :
ITALIAN ( A5 - 0162 / 2000 ) , dell ' onorevole Lambert , sulle delibere della commissione per le petizioni nell ' arco dell ' anno parlamentare 1999 - 2000 ;
ITALIAN ( A5 - 0181 / 2000 ) , dell ' onorevole Thors , sulla relazione annuale di attività del Mediatore europeo per l ' anno 1999 .
ITALIAN Signor Presidente , sono lieto che mi si offra l ' occasione di informare il Parlamento europeo sui risultati del mio lavoro in qualità di Mediatore europeo per il 1999 .
ITALIAN Il numero delle indagini avviate è passato dalle 171 del 1998 alle 206 del 1999, registrando un aumento superiore al 20 percento .
ITALIAN La notorietà del Mediatore europeo sta crescendo . Inoltre il nostro ufficio riceve una maggior quantità di denunce gravi che richiedono indagini approfondite .
ITALIAN Vi interesserà sapere che abbiamo osservato questa tendenza anche nell ' anno in corso : nei primi sei mesi del 2000, il numero delle nuove indagini è salito del 32 percento rispetto allo stesso periodo del 1999 .
ITALIAN Spero che il Parlamento europeo aiuti il Mediatore ad ottenere le risorse necessarie per svolgere efficacemente la propria opera .
